


=======================ABSTRACT 1========================


1. Front Aging. 2024 Jul 29;5:1429156. doi: 10.3389/fragi.2024.1429156.
eCollection  2024.

Cell autocloning as a pathway to their real rejuvenation.

Salnikov L(1).

Author information:
(1)AntiCA Biomed, San Diego, CA, United States.

The article gives a brief description of geroprotection and rejuvenation methods 
known to date, presenting their main mechanisms and limitations. To overcome the 
main limitations of the process of rejuvenation, it is possible to use a process 
called "cell autocloning." The principle of the proposed method of rejuvenation 
is as follows: a periodic process of autocloning of the cell nucleus is 
initiated in the cellular genome with the formation of one unstable daughter 
copy and its subsequent self-elimination. In this case, the process of cell 
division stops in the phase of nuclei divergence without subsequent physical 
separation of the cell itself. This is especially important for postmitotic 
cells, where the looping of the "unidirectional" line of the ontogenesis program 
into a "ring" will mean their transition into renewable cells. The prototype for 
autocloning mechanisms could be the already known ways in which cells adapt to 
the increasing amount of their damage over time. These are polyploidy and 
asymmetric cell division, relying on which it is possible to obtain a renewable 
process of cell nuclei division, when only the original nucleus remains as a 
result of division. Although this is not a simple task, there are possible 
pathways to its solution using approaches that can suggest modern knowledge from 
the field of molecular and cell biology and genetics. The realization of such a 
goal will require a lot of work, but the expected result justifies it.

Copyright © 2024 Salnikov.

DOI: 10.3389/fragi.2024.1429156
PMCID: PMC11317467
PMID: 39136004

Conflict of interest statement: Author LS, employed by AntiCa Biomed.